<h1> <b> Starbucks Capstone Challenge </b> </h1> 

https://exploratory-data.blogspot.com/2021/04/starbucks-capstone-challenge-project.html

<b> <h2> Project Outline: </h2> </b>

Starbucks Capstone challenge is part of my Udacity's Nanodegree Program and this is all about analyzing datasets listed to gather insights that mimic customer behavior on the Starbucks rewards mobile app. Once every few days, Starbucks sends out offers to its customers of the mobile app. An offer can be merely an advertisement for a drink or an actual offer such as a discount or BOGO (buy one get one free). Some users might not receive any offers during certain weeks.

Not all users receive the same offer, and that is the challenge to solve with this data set. 

The task is to combine transaction, demographic, and offer data to determine which demographic groups respond best to which offer type. This data set is a simplified version of the real Starbucks app because the underlying simulator only has one product whereas Starbucks actually sells dozens of products.Project Outline:
Starbucks Capstone challenge is part of my Udacity's Nanodegree Program and this is all about analyzing datasets listed to gather insights that mimic customer behavior on the Starbucks rewards mobile app. Once every few days, Starbucks sends out offers to its customers of the mobile app. An offer can be merely an advertisement for a drink or an actual offer such as a discount or BOGO (buy one get one free). Some users might not receive any offers during certain weeks.

Not all users receive the same offer, and that is the challenge to solve with this data set. 

The task is to combine transaction, demographic, and offer data to determine which demographic groups respond best to which offer type. This data set is a simplified version of the real Starbucks app because the underlying simulator only has one product whereas Starbucks actually sells dozens of products.

<b> Credits: </b> Udacity

<b> <h2> Problem Statement: </h2> </b>

Upon overviewing the outline, we do have a set of problem statements to be answered and they are:

1. Which type of offers influence the customers more allowing the company to push offers better? Analysing the data based on a set of heuristics developed.

2. Identifying the age groups and gender that highly viewed the offer and completed the offer purchase?

i.e. offer received ---> offer viewed ---> offer completed.

<b> <h2> Data Overview:</h2></b>

<b> portfolio: </b> Containing offer ids and metadata about each offer (duration, type, etc.).

<b> profile </b> - Demographic data for each customer.

<b> transcript </b>- Records for transactions, offers received, offers viewed, and offers complete.

<b> <h3> portfolio(pt):</h3> </b> 

<b> id (string) </b> - offer id

<b> offer_type (string) </b> - the type of offer ie BOGO, discount, informational

<b> difficulty (int) </b> - the minimum required to spend to complete an offer

<b> reward (int) </b> - the reward is given for completing an offer

<b> duration (int) </b>- time for the offer to be open, in days

<b> channels </b> (list of strings)

<b> <h3> profile(pf): </h3> </b>

<b> age (int) </b> - age of the customer

<b> became_member_on (int) </b> - the date when the customer created an app account

<b> gender (str)</b> - gender of the customer (note some entries contain 'O' for other rather than M or F)

<b> id (str) </b> - customer-id

<b> income (float) </b> - customer's income

<b> <h3> transcript(ts): </h3></b> 

<b> event (str) </b> - record description (ie transaction, offer received, offer viewed, etc.)

<b> person (str) </b> - customer-id

<b> time (int) </b> - time in hours since the start of the test. The data begins at time t=0

<b> value </b> - (dict of strings) - either an offer id or transaction amount depending on the record.

<b> <h2> Data Preprocessing: </h2> </b>

As far as the portfolio is taken, we try to perform one-hot encoding on the categories in the nested lists of channels feature. Given below is how the data frame after encoding.

Glimpsing over the profile data frame, we could clearly see from the first 5 observations that we have some null values. What went as an added advantage is that there exists the same amount of null values in both genre and income columns. Also, this is a bit different since we have timestamps within, we try to create new columns like membership year, month, and days to check on whether some of its plots give us the needed information.

Jumping to the next dataset,  it was evident that we have a 'value' column portrayed as a dictionary, and in order to make use of the values from the dictionary, we just created a function that separates the values and stores them in a new column as 'offer_id'. 

There is one additional column created as 'offer_type' which is generated by tagging the unique 10 IDs from the portfolio dataset to its offer id.

<b> <h2> Conclusions after EDA: </h2> </b>


Let's revisit our problem statement once again:
 
1. Which type of offers influence the customers more allowing the company to push offers better? Analyzing the data based on a set of heuristics developed.

2. Identifying the age groups and gender that highly viewed the offer and completed the offer purchase?
i.e. offer received ---> offer viewed ---> offer completed.

In order to answer the first part, I think looking at a few of the visualization graphs, it was perfectly evident that BOGO and Discount lead the race leaving informational offer type the least important. As far as promotion is concerned, I think it would be rational enough to focus more and more on BOGO and Discount offers and also trying to restructure the informational offer type which might improve to become a potential category later.

The second part, this was elaborated in detail next to the plots, to summarize, it is straight forward that 50s group were the ones who have a high customer base in Starbucks, promoting offers more frequently and particularly to this group could achieve the target on effective offer completion. The 50s males tend to complete more DISCOUNT offers as compared to the females who complete the same offer.

<b> <h2> Licensing, Authors, Acknowledgements, etc. </h2> </b>

Data for coding project was provided by Udacity.







